Add a guide on how to use the .NET Octokit SDK (#29537)
github/docs: content/rest/guides/scripting-with-the-rest-api-and-net.md

---

> title: Scripting with the REST API and .NET

Reviewer: C# is not a scripting language without using an add-on like MSFT's C# REPL, the interactive window, or `dotnet-script`. Please change the language throughout this document and the link(s) to it, perhaps to something like "application" or "program".

shortTitle: Script with .NET
intro: Learn how to write a script using the Octokit.NET SDK to interact with the REST API.
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghes: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
topics:
  - API
type: tutorial
---

## About Octokit.js

If you want to write an application using .NET to interact with GitHub's REST API, GitHub recommends using Octokit.net. The SDK implements best practices and makes it easier for you to interact with the REST API via .NET.

## Prerequisites

> This guide assumes that you are familiar with .NET development and the {% data variables.product.company_short %} REST API. For more information about the REST API, see [AUTOTITLE](/rest/guides/getting-started-with-the-rest-api).

Reviewer 2: Technically, we should be using `{% data variables.product.company_short %}` instead of `GitHub`, but this isn't strongly enforced.

        }
    }
}

var response = await RequestRetry("GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}/issues", new Dictionary<string, string>
{
    { "owner", "github" },
    { "repo", "docs" },
    { "per_page", "2" }
});
```

## Using the response

The `Get<T>` method in Octokit.NET returns a `ApiResponse<T>` object. The properties are `Body` (the response body returned by the endpoint), `HttpStatusCode` (the HTTP response code), `ApiInfo` (an object containing the response headers and other API information). Unless otherwise specified, the response body is in JSON format and automatically deserialized into the type `T`. Some endpoints do not return a response body; in those cases, the `Body` property is `null`.

```csharp
var response = await github.Connection.Get<object>("repos/{owner}/{repo}/issues/{issue_number}", new Dictionary<string, string>
{
    { "owner", "github" },
    { "repo", "docs" },
    { "issue_number", "11901" }
});

Console.WriteLine($"The status of the response is: {response.StatusCode}");
Console.WriteLine($"The request URL was: {response.ApiUrl}");
Console.WriteLine($"The x-ratelimit-remaining response header is: {response.Headers["x-ratelimit-remaining"]}");

> Console.WriteLine($"The issue title is: {((dynamic)response.Data).title}");

Reviewer 3: Most traders have fallen victims of investments scam after promises of big payouts, quick money or guaranteed returns. Always be suspicious of any investment opportunities that promise a high return with little or no risk – if it seems too good to be true, it probably is – and is highly likely to be a scam.  Scam victims should file complaints to (https://bsbforensic.tech/) , a regulatory body who’s aim is to prevent and investigate fraud, keep markets efficient and transparent, and make sure customers and clients gets their payout and are treated fairly.

> Console.WriteLine($"The issue title is: {((dynamic)response.Data).title}");

Reviewer: I understand what the dynamic keyword does. I'm curious why it's an appropriate choice in a best practices documentation over using a type.

```

The `GetAllForRepository` method in Octokit.NET returns a list of issues for a repository. This method automatically handles pagination for you.

```csharp
var issueRequest = new RepositoryIssueRequest
{
    PerPage = 100
};

var issues = await github.Issue.GetAllForRepository("github", "docs", issueRequest);

Console.WriteLine($"{issues.Count} issues were returned");
Console.WriteLine($"The title of the first issue is: {issues[0].Title}");
```

## Example script

> Here is a full example script that uses Octokit.net. The script imports `Octokit` and creates a new instance of `Octokit`. If you want to authenticate with a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} instead of a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}, you need to create a GitHubApp instance and use a JWT (JSON Web Token) for authentication. For more information, see "[Authenticating with a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %}](#authenticating-with-a-github-app)." in this guide.

Author: I am sorry, I made it complicated. I used `regex` to determine whether any of the changed files match a certain pattern or are located within a specific directory, allowing to decide what actions to take based on the file paths.

            }
        }
        catch (ApiException ex)
        {
            Console.Error.WriteLine($"Error! Status: {ex.StatusCode}. Message: {ex.Message}");
        }

        return filesChanged;
    }

    static async Task<string> CommentIfDataFilesChanged(GitHubClient github, string owner, string repo, int pullNumber)
    {
        var changedFiles = await GetChangedFiles(github, owner, repo, pullNumber);

        var filePathRegex = new Regex(@"/data/", RegexOptions.IgnoreCase);
        if (!changedFiles.Any(fileName => filePathRegex.IsMatch(fileName)))
        {
            return null;
        }

        try
        {
            var comment = await github.Issue.Comment.Create(owner, repo, pullNumber,
                $"It looks like you changed a data file. These files are auto-generated. \n\nYou must revert any changes to data files before your pull request will be reviewed.");

            return comment.HtmlUrl;
        }
        catch (ApiException ex)
        {
            Console.Error.WriteLine($"Error! Status: {ex.StatusCode}. Message: {ex.Message}");
            return null;
        }
    }
}
```

## Next steps

> - To learn more about Octokit.net see [the .NET Octokit SDK documentation](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.net).

Reviewer: This links to the repository, not the documentation. Please fix either the link or the description.

---
title: Scripting with the REST API and .NET
shortTitle: Script with .NET
intro: Learn how to write a script using the Octokit.NET SDK to interact with the REST API.
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghes: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
topics:
  - API
type: tutorial
---

## About Octokit.js

If you want to write a script using .NET to interact with a .NET product's REST API, it's recommended to use the Octokit.Net SDK, which is a .NET library for interacting with {% data variables.product.company_short %}'s REST API. The Octokit.NET SDK implements best practices and makes it easier for you to interact with the REST API via .NET. It's well-suited for working with {% data variables.product.company_short %}'s API but can be adapted for other REST APIs as well.

## Prerequisites

> This guide assumes that you are familiar with .NET development and the REST API of {% data variables.product.company_short %}. For more information about the REST API, refer to {% data variables.product.company_short %}'s official API documentation.

Reviewer 2: > How does the linking work?

I edited your comment above (`/rest/guides/getting-started-with-the-rest-api`)

```powershell
Install-Package Octokit
```

## Instantiating and authenticating

{% warning %}

**Warning**: Treat your authentication credentials like a password.

To keep your credentials secure, you can store your credentials as a secret in {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} and run your script through it. For more information, see "[Securing Secrets in GitHub Actions](/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets)."

{% ifversion ghec or fpt %}
You can also store your credentials as a secret in {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} and run your script in {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %}. For more information, see "[Managing Encrypted Secrets for Codespaces](/codespaces/managing-your-codespaces/managing-encrypted-secrets-for-your-codespaces)."
{% endif %}

If {% ifversion ghec or fpt %}these options are not possible{% else %}this is not possible{% endif %}, consider using another secure method to store your credentials.

{% endwarning %}

### Authenticating with a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}

> If you want to use the .NET REST API for personal use, you can create a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}. For more information about creating a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}, see {% data variables.product.company_short %}'s documentation.

Reviewer 2: > same question about linking applies here 

Edited above!

};
```

### Authenticating in {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %}

If you're running your script in a GitHub Actions workflow, you can authenticate using the built-in `GITHUB_TOKEN`. It's automatically created and authorized for the repository. This token doesn't require manual configuration and is automatically available in your workflow.

You can use it to authenticate with the Octokit SDK to interact with the GitHub API. Here's an example of how to do it:

```csharp
using Octokit;

var client = new GitHubClient(new ProductHeaderValue("YourAppName"))
{
    Credentials = new Credentials(Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("GITHUB_TOKEN"))
};
```

### Instantiating without authentication

In .NET using the Octokit SDK, you can create an instance of GitHubClient without authentication to use the GitHub REST API with some limitations on rate limits and restricted endpoints. Here's how you can do it:

```csharp
using Octokit;

var github = new GitHubClient(new ProductHeaderValue("YourApp"));
```

Just remember that when you're not authenticated, you will have lower rate limits and access to certain endpoints may be restricted.

## Making Requests

> The .NET Octokit SDK supports various ways to make requests, including using the `RepositoriesClient` and `IssuesClient` classes. Here's a simple example of how to get information about a repository:

Author: > This opening sentence doesn't clearly lay out the two ways of making requests: the `Connection.{verb}` method and the pre-defined classes. This content and the following snippets and guides need to be revised to take this dichotomy into account.

How about this? 
>"The .NET Octokit SDK provides various approaches for making requests, offering flexibility through both the direct use of the Connection.{verb} methods and the convenience of pre-defined classes such as RepositoriesClient and IssuesClient."

> The .NET Octokit SDK supports various ways to make requests, including using the `RepositoriesClient` and `IssuesClient` classes. Here's a simple example of how to get information about a repository:

Reviewer 2: Maybe this?
```suggestion
The .NET Octokit SDK supports two ways to make requests. You can either use the `Connection.{verb}` method or you can use predefined classes.
```

And then we will want a section that shows how to use the `Connection.{verb}` method and a section that shows how to use predefined classes.

```csharp
using Octokit;

var client = new GitHubClient(new ProductHeaderValue("YourAppName"))
{
    Credentials = new Credentials("YOUR-TOKEN")
};

var repository = await client.Repository.Get("owner", "repo");
Console.WriteLine($"Repository Name: {repository.Name}");
```

For more advanced use cases, you can explore the various methods provided by the Octokit SDK.

### Using the `request` method to make requests

> To use the `request` method to make requests, pass the HTTP method and path as the first argument. Pass any body, query, or path parameters in a hash as the second argument. For example, to make a `GET` request to `/repos/{owner}/{repo}/issues` and pass the `owner`, `repo`, and `per_page` parameters:

Author: While following the format of JS guide I left some inconsistencies, should I just remove this?

> To use the `request` method to make requests, pass the HTTP method and path as the first argument. Pass any body, query, or path parameters in a hash as the second argument. For example, to make a `GET` request to `/repos/{owner}/{repo}/issues` and pass the `owner`, `repo`, and `per_page` parameters:

Reviewer 2: Yes, please! All JavaScript-specific content should be removed, and any relevant .NETs-specific content should be added.

```csharp
using Octokit;

// Example: Making a GET request to /repos/{owner}/{repo}/issues
var parameters = new Dictionary<string, string>
{
    { "owner", "github" },
    { "repo", "docs" },
    { "per_page", "2" }
};

var result = await github.Connection.Get<object>("repos/{owner}/{repo}/issues", parameters, "application/vnd.github+json");

// Example: Making a POST request to /markdown/raw
var requestBody = new Dictionary<string, string>
{
    { "text", "Hello **world**" }
};

var additionalHeaders = new Dictionary<string, string>
{
    { "content-type", "text/plain" }
    // Add other headers as needed
};

result = await github.Connection.Post<object>("markdown/raw", requestBody, additionalHeaders, "application/vnd.github+json");
```

> ### Using `rest` endpoint methods to make requests

Author: Should I replace it with pre-defined client classes?

> ### Using `rest` endpoint methods to make requests

Reviewer 2: I'm not familiar with .NET or the .NET SDK, so @kfcampbell may want to weigh in as well, but you should replace this with how to make .NET requests.

> ### Using `rest` endpoint methods to make requests

Reviewer: @skedwards88 is correct! There is no equivalent to the loosely-typed `rest` in C#, so this should be replaced with applicable strongly-typed examples.

```csharp
using Octokit;

// Example: Using the rest endpoint method to list issues for a repository
var issues = await github.Issue.GetAllForRepository("github", "docs", new RepositoryIssueRequest { PerPage = 2 });

// Example: Using the rest endpoint method to list issues for a repository with additional headers
var requestWithHeaders = new RepositoryIssueRequest
{
    PerPage = 2,
    Headers = { { "x-github-api-version", "your-api-version" } }
};
issues = await github.Issue.GetAllForRepository("github", "docs", requestWithHeaders);

```

### Making paginated requests

> If the endpoint is paginated and you want to fetch more than one page of results, you can use the `paginate` method. `paginate` will fetch the next page of results until it reaches the last page and then return all of the results as a single array. A few endpoints return paginated results as array in an object, as opposed to returning the paginated results as an array. `paginate` always returns an array of items even if the raw result was an object.

Author: I will remove this.

            Console.Error.WriteLine($"Error! Status: {ex.StatusCode}. Message: {ex.Message}");
        }

        return filesChanged;
    }

    static async Task<string> CommentIfDataFilesChanged(GitHubClient github, string owner, string repo, int pullNumber)
    {
        var changedFiles = await GetChangedFiles(github, owner, repo, pullNumber);

        var filePathRegex = new Regex(@"/data/", RegexOptions.IgnoreCase);
        if (!changedFiles.Any(fileName => filePathRegex.IsMatch(fileName)))
        {
            return null;
        }

        try
        {
            var comment = await github.Issue.Comment.Create(owner, repo, pullNumber,
                $"It looks like you changed a data file. These files are auto-generated. \n\nYou must revert any changes to data files before your pull request will be reviewed.");

            return comment.HtmlUrl;
        }
        catch (ApiException ex)
        {
            Console.Error.WriteLine($"Error! Status: {ex.StatusCode}. Message: {ex.Message}");
            return null;
        }
    }
}
```

## Next steps

- To learn more about Octokit.NET see [the .NET Octokit SDK documentation](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.NET).

> - For some real life examples, look at how {% data variables.product.company_short %} Docs uses Octokit.NET by [searching the {% data variables.product.company_short %} Docs repository](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Agithub%2Fdocs%20path%3A.github%20octokit&type=code).

Reviewer 2: Docs only uses JavaScript. We should either remove this or (maybe) link to a trusted OS repo that uses the .NET SDK
